
- camera and telescope have a field of view of about 20" = 0.3 degrees.
- the width of the image is 1936 pixels which is about 1894" = 31' 34" = 0.298 degrees
- the height of the image is 1072 pixels which is about 1072" = 17' 52" = 0.526 degrees
- stellarium right ascension seems to be off by an hour. daylight savings time?
- the width is about the distance from polaris to the celestial north pole.
- polaris saturates at about 280 ms.
- magnitude 11+ stars show up in 1.0s exposure. quite clear in 2.0s.

- focuser distance setting is about 28mm for stars.
that's the distance between the edge of the camera and the edge of the focuser housing.
it was 29 mm prior to recent calibration.

- the mount will not turn the payload upside down.
if you try to move it too far west it will sew to the far east.

Siril Tutorial: Image Stacking & Processing in Astrophotography
https://sathvikacharyaa.github.io/sirilastro/


collimation procedure

1. center the small secondary mirror.
use a small ruler that fits inside the tube.
the distance from tube to outer diameter of the base is about 48 mm.

2. align the secondary mirror.
loosen the three tiny screws on the secondary mirror base.
look through the focuser tube.
use a medium screwdriver to position the secondary mirror.
get a friend to tighten the tiny screws.
1/8 turn at a time.

3. align the focuser tube using shims.
repeat steps 2,3 as needed or until frustrated.

4. strap the scope into its cradle.
clamp it to a table.
place the artificial star field about 20' away.
attach camera with all 4 spacers.
fully extend the focuser.
remove cover.

5. run the zwo code.
exposure (e) about 10,000 us.
iso (1) about 2000.
show the collimation circles (k).
shift the cradle until a star is in view.
adjust focus so it's about 60% of the window height.

5. adjust the primary mirror so the shadow of the secondary mirror is centered.
there are three pairs of medium screws.
the right screw threads with the tube.
the left screw threads with the mirrror.
loosen one. tighten the other.
use your finger or screwdriver handle to determine which set to adjust.

6. to "lift" the mirror - loosen left, tighten right.
if the shadow is too far left then you need to lift the right.
usually you go in small increments.
but for the first time i do 1-2 complete turns to ensure this is the correct direction.
adjusting the mirror will move the star out of the field of view.
shift the cradle to the same or different star.
repeat with small steps. usually 1/4 turn.
repeat with a different pair of adjustment screws.
repeat until satisifed or frustrated.


camera oddities:

there are numerous pixels that appear to leak.
they accumulate color way faster than all other pixels.
even in the dark.
even with modest exposure times.
probably need to identify them and ignore them.
but then there are other pixels that leak a little.
so for long exposures they're too bright.
seems like we need to intentionally drift the image.
so we can identify the too-bright pixels.

i have the driver/library crash with long exposure times.
that was with the 1.26 library.
1.39 seems to be better.

the fastest i can get the camera to run at rull resolution is 4 fps.
it appears the camera is single buffered.
ie it can capture or unload.
it can't do both simultaneously.
so below 250 ms exposure time - fps is dominated by io transfer.
greater than 250 ms - fps is dominated by capture time.


notes for capture 2025-11-21
exposure: 600,000
iso: 3,000
gamma: 0.4


to do list:
make a star catalog.
save star lists.

random ideas:

seems like we need to build a star catalog.
starting with the stars near polaris.
so we can accurately polar align the scope.

procedure #1:
roughly align the scope towards polaris.
home position.
should be able to see some stars.
2 seconds should find magnitude 12 stars.
enable find stars.
enable tracking.

save an image or 5.
identify and remove false positives.
disable tracking.
wait 2 minutes.
repeat.
find the same reliable stars.
repeat again.

so now we should have 3 x,y positions for 4+ stars.
guess two angles.
guess the x,y position of the celestial north pole.
do some levenberg-marquardt math.
now we know the x,y position of the celestial north pole.
and we know the relative right ascensions and declinations of the stars.
and we know the two angles.

step #2.
enable tracking.
enable find stars.
save an image or 5.
find the reliable stars.
slew east by the larger angle.
save an image or 5.
find the reliable stars.
slew back to home.
slew west by the larger angle.
save an image or 5.
find the reliable stars.

so now we should have 3 x,y positions for 4+ stars.
do the math again.
and now we know the x,y position of the mount axis.
we should be able to draw circles where the stars should be.
we should be able to adjust the mount to align them.

wish list:
need command to find reliable stars aka the plate.
need command to slew the mount to center the plate.










